One big question since
October 7th is, is how how did H
carry out
such a successful, sophisticated
if you can call it that,
terrorist attack while
keeping it all so secret?
And today, we're learning
that old school technology
may have played a major role.
CNN's chief investigative corres
Pamela Brown, joins us now from
Pamela, what does the intelligen
Well, Jake,
sources are telling me and my co
at Cohen that a small group of H
operatives used hard
wired phones in the tunnels
beneath Gaza
to communicate
over a period of two years.
That's according to intelligence
with U.S.
officials Now, those old fashion
landlines allowed Hamas leaders
to communicate underground with
another in secret.
They avoided using computers
or cell phones
in order to keep from being trac
by Israeli or U.S. intelligence.
According to these sources, and
it worked, Jake.
Instead, they held meetings in p
among a small group
and they stayed off
all digital communications.
So this partially explains
why Israel and the U.S.
were caught
so off guard by the attack
and how 1000 Hamas fighters
were able to pour across the bor
without being stopped shown here
And this propaganda video
released by Hamas.
Now, all of this communication h
in the miles of underground
a tunnel system beneath Gaza
that the IDF nicknamed the Gaza
You heard the hostage
there in the story
you just played, Jake,
talking about the spiderweb of t
That's where
apparently these phone lines
were hard wired underground.
And another way
Hamas was able
to keep this under the radar
is that they kept the planning
of the October 7th attack
a secret even from other members
Only a very small group
knew about this mission
until just before it was carried
Hamas ground unit commanders and
were in training for many months
and they were kept
in a state of general preparedne
I'm told,
but only found out
about the specific plans
just a few days
before the terrorist attack.
And one of the sources said
some of their
training above ground was observ
by Israeli officials,
but did not ring major alarm bel
The thinking
was, I'm told, was, oh, Hamas
always tradespeople like this.
It didn't look different.
But of course, we know now, Jake
and Pamela, Israel
actually found these hard wired
phones in Hamas
strongholds in the past, though,
Yeah, that's right.
Israeli military found a similar
of communication system
when they raided a city
in the northern West
Bank over the summer,
according to an Israeli official
They called this
a joint operational command cent
and it had hard wired communicat
and closed
circuit surveillance cameras
to give advance
warning of Israeli troop movemen
So clearly,
this is something that has been
in their playbook, Hamas
has had in their playbook,
and they used it
to execute this operation,
as you pointed out, successfully
All right.
Pamela Brown, thank you so much.
I want to bring in Mark
Regev with me here in Tel Aviv.
He is the senior adviser
to Israel's Prime
Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu,
also a former Israeli ambassador
to the United Kingdom.
Thank you so much for being here
I really appreciate it.
If Shin Bet,
the Israeli
security service,
if it knows so much about Hamas,
why wouldn't
they know about these tactics?
How could Shin Bet
and the IDF not have seen Octobe
coming in anyway?
So it's clear
there was an intelligence failur
It's clear
we were taken by surprise and we
a terrible price for that.
What is it,
1400 people killed
and more taken hostage?
I think we when this is over
now we're focused on winning thi
and we will win this.
But when this is over,
there have to be an investigatio
and thorough investigation
lessons learned.
Why was there an intelligence fa
Why was it so easy
for them to cross over the fence
which was supposed to protect us
with all the high tech and so fo
And why did it take the IDF
so long to force them
back to the other side
and kill the people
who had come over to our side?
There are all sorts of issues
that need to be investigated.
In the past,
when we've had security
mishaps like this,
and this is more than a mishap,
a major problem.
We've had investigations,
we've had committees of inquiry.
We've had parliamentary inquirie
I'm sure when this is over,
when we've won this,
we'll have those sort of investi
Ultimately, we're going to conti
to live here.
We live in a tough neighborhood,
and we have to make sure
we're at the top of our game.
And it's clear we weren't.
When you heard the freed hostage
Yoli Lifshitz.
85 years old
this morning,
saying this wasn't
just an internal intelligence fa
There had been warnings in the w
before Hamas doing things, the f
not strong people calling
the security forces, warning the
And these complaints, these warn
the kibbutzim around they're ign
So it's clear
she's speaking for many Israelis
I mean, we
we pride ourselves
on having
very good intelligence services.
The Mossad has
an international reputation.
The Shin Bet is the same.
And yet here it's obviously
we weren't up to par.
And I think Israelis expect more
and there will be investigations
and there will be lessons learne
Why do you think Hamas
has been releasing hostages?
That's four hostages released.
Obviously, two of them are Ameri
I'm not sure about the nationali
of these recent two.
Are they Israeli? Yes.
They're both just purely Israeli
That's what I understand. Okay.
Why are they releasing hostages?
Because they're under immense pr
and their allies are under
immense pressure.
Look, Hamas wants a cease fire.
They hit us.
They hit us hard.
And now they want a cease fire
to protect them
so we don't destroy
their military machine.
But they're not going to get wha
We're going to continue
keeping up the pressure.
We're going to continue to targe
And with the international
diplomatic pressure on their all
we think we can get more people
Do you think they're going
to be more hostages
released in the next week, two w
I can't
I can't speak for Hamas, obvious
but we'll keep the pressure
up in the past over the last wee
Pressure has got people out.
Keep the pressure
up, increase
that pressure,
make Hamas feel the heat,
make their allies feel the heat.
You'll get more people out.
So last night you told CNN's
Kaitlan Collins
that Israel
is not going to authorize
fuel to enter Gaza
because it will just
fall into Hamas's hands,
even if it's meant for the hospi
Correct? Meant for humanitarian
Hamas will take it.
They control Gaza. Correct.
Only then this morning, the IDF
chief of staff said it will
it will enter fuel,
enter Gaza, but only for civilia
Then just minutes ago,
an IDF spokesperson
said no fuel full stop
because it will end up
in the hands of Hamas.
That's three different positions
in less than 12 hours, I think.
Why?
What's going on and what is ther
Are you going to end
on one of these positions at som
So the government decision
that has been taken
by our security cabinet
is we're in favor of humanitaria
which is water food and medicine
Right.
The trouble with fuel
and I know that they say they ne
for the generators in the hospit
and that's a genuine need.
Is that the same fuel
is taken stolen by Hamas?
And as you've said correctly,
they control Gaza.
The only people with guns,
they can take what they want.
They take that off
for their military machine
and they use that for rockets.
For rockets
and for their underground
network of tunnels. Right.
For the oxygen in the tunnels, c
Right.
And we obviously want to deny th
But I want you to know,
we we put out a statement earlie
The IDF, there is actually a hug
of fuel inside
Gaza today, which Hamas has.
Now, if you could tell me
give me assurances, guarantees
that fuel going into Gaza would
for civilian purposes, that's fi
But I don't think anyone can giv
that guarantee.
And we saw last week, CNN report
I remember
there were six truck
loads, six tankers went in with
And we know for a fact
that Hamas hijacked and stole
part of that fuel.
And so we're dealing
with a formidable enemy.
There should be no shortage
whatsoever for the hospitals in
but Hamas is stealing that fuel
from the people of Gaza.
Can you clear something up for m
Because I really can't get
a straight answer on this.
There are about five or 600 Amer
stuck in Gaza.
They've a lot of them are at
the Rafah crossing. Right.
These are Americans.
They have American passports.
Some of them are Palestinian-Ame
But but, you know,
they have homes in Massachusetts
They have homes in New Jersey.
They've been calling the U.S.
State Department.
Why can't they get out?
So I can give you a clear answer
Hamas won't let them out.
In many ways,
I think Hamas is also
keeping them hostage.
I remember Secretary Blinken rai
that issue.
What was it, over a week ago
before the president was here,
before you were secretary of def
It was one of the issues
that came up with us
and we said from our point of vi
we'll do everything we can
to facilitate their immediate re
but only out of Rafah crossing,
because all of your crossings ar
and they've been destroyed.
That functioning, that's a war z
Right.
We've had very serious firefight
I understand.
I'm just said we're we're happy
and eager to facilitate their re
their exit.
That's a promise to the American
We're serious about that.
But Hamas has decided to play ga
with these Americans.
But it's not el-Sisi. It's not E
It's Hamas. Yes, definitely.
All right.
Former Ambassador Mark Regev,
thank you for your time today.
I really appreciate it.